so  is more profitable than can
switching  from came the silk
ethically  the right thing to do we have no idea what percentage
would  be willing to make that switch for poetical reason
but  it turns out there are fundamental economic reasons
a  society make that
individuals  or for individual companies
i  was sent a link to an article in forms magazine for us a couple of months ago by more
we  talked with his wife patron i support her on patron she supports me also a patriot
is  mutual and we filled up a little bit by mail
this  article informs magazine gives this statistic from pennsylvania that the profit
margin  on comitis less than two percent
and  the prophet margin on
so  as made by silk corporation in the
more  than percent
so  in layman's terms
twice  as profitable roughly
to  produce
signor  in that kind of high and packaging
not  chinese style so this is not thy land
all  american signorina
as  twice as profile
dairy  from cows
and  the article points out in forms coat also keep in mind that the dairy
industry  received sub
keep  prices or
ah  the articles next foullepointe is quite dairy production takes an incredible soil
part  of me than an incredible toll on the soil and atmosphere italiote quote
handling  livestock is no picnic separating mothers from their caves sauterne
manure  management et cetera
on
ah  we are simply not built to consume
non  human daring
the  sole purpose of cow's milk is to grow a calf from a papamene pounds
to  seven hundred pounds in less than two years
not  only our humans the only species
after  weaning age we are also the species who consume another mammals milk
that  sounds like
began  propagated read of oyster on a pole
book  by its published in fors magazine and wish been published for as
the  business
but  the economic prospects
transition  again one company of one of the visual person over the society is the whole
from  calm
going  to quote margaret now this is actually comment she made on patron
to  pay one dollar a month in june conversation quote i think there is a bigger point to be made in terms of economics
here  a long history of studying the illicit drug industry as an historian is no shears of
background  study
the  drug of drug trafficking
in  columbia south america
this  history has made me very interested in how boycotts work or don't
demand  does not directly
stead  it reduces the profit motive behind those
as  is almost a point out once prices dropped to a certain
coals  are the inevitable result
real  change comes
when  profit is
and  corporations
and  small businesses
in  pastures
the  fact that the guns are willing to pay an identical or higher price for
exponentially  cheaper to produce
encourages  people to shift to plant to produce
this  really does happen in the real world
i  think darry or the first place this is going to happen because the economics are so palpable
the  sale of white waves food is the company that produces
to  dan on denunciations very corporation comical prussian
is  evidence of a
and  market commentators not began have been quick to point out the tractive margins of plants
even  when subsidies are taken
i  think this is a critical piece the economical
being  ignored and she then says time for me to make a video i guess
so  she may make her own video
okay
this  full of discussion to have with their
she  mentions that she identifies as a negative utilitarian
and  economic determinism
describes  her own approach to these issues is fundamentally economic whereas mine
may  be more fundamentally political
so  i counted her thus
this  type of economic logic addresses some issues
and  not
it  fits very well with this specific example of the total production
it  does not even fit that well when we're looking at the
a  logical impacts of for example manville and the price omens
that  was an embarrassment to many kinds people would always raise the fact that you know there were water shortages
in  california and yes begins could point to all the water being wasted in the production of
very
cow  beef et cetera but the other side could point to the production of all men
no  economic outcomes are sometimes making in dollars and cents and there are sometimes measure
water
all  these measurements matter economically so yes this specific example
favors  are cases
specifically  say milk is more economically efficient and of course more echoed
production  of dark
however  other examples are much further afield than the
amidst  or on
or  what have you
think  about the contrast between national parks
and  animals being kept in a
can  be profitable
canon  theory make a lot of money
not  a chair
even  so in some cases so sarrope
they  rely on government handouts scrape by or
go  to be
so  the economic logic although it may favor some overcome
for
national  parks national parks and
the  wild
there
as  opposed to zoe with a put on for
now  even if you compare to zoos let's say we have two different zoos and one
zoo  is trying to replicate
wild  habitat and as it will have
you  have a zoo that is as much as possible let's say engaged
conservation  was
trying  to keep indigence
from  the world and is doing so by lovingly recreating the types of conditions in the wild
i  live but not types of conditions that are most entertaining to human visitors lessay
you  have a second zoo
step  by step closer to being a circus with us not their emphasises the trio have the most exciting
and
and  how those animals doing things that her sight people here in china seen a zoo
where  human beings contained money to put me
on  the end of a stick like as if they're going fishing with a fishing pole and dangled
the  meat in front of a tiger in front of a whole budget tigers and a tiger pit said the tigers jumped
up  and grabbed the meat and the humans are entertained
it's  not a circus but he is now which one is more profitable which
was  rateable habitat conservation style is of a word when
i  foretasting again believe a matter with which would what types of animals of them i mean some zoo is
going  to choose a type of you know the pigmy hippopotami from africa and say well
this  is an important species to conserve for all these reasons
neither  need species concerns or there were research reasons to have the animal in the enclosed
habitat  well that's not really want to see people may be won to see lions and tigers
maybe  they want to see lions fighting against tigers or you know again where you can throw
me  to the tigers and wash them leap up and catch it this
same  eincona they had baby
the  children were allowed to
pull  the tails
remember  my translator who was
he  was especially offended by
said  bitterly that she hoped one
the  baby
he
so  some forty disturbing to see the tigers exploded this laconic
logic  is not always on a favor case
it's  powerful important to note
which  it does and i think my veins aware i've really kind of clashed with and harshly condemn
some  of the far left wing
who  assumed that our situation in being and as is one of outright conflict
with  capitalism as such capital
not  true at all i mean you know very obviously
factory  farmed
more  economically efficient than free rangers
or  then hunted me
we  do the numbers this is included by the way in the old the standard website that rest
local  water footprint
production
and  also
air  pollution would i do but water footprints the easy
to  get a waterfall
a  man likes pardon me how many acres of land you need how many thousands of leaders of water
you  need to produce one killing round of beef
the  most efficient way to produce
that  meat is in the horrible factory pharmacist where they are indoors the whole
you  know they never go out doors they live very short lives it's one of the main defences
on  concrete and steel
and  by contrast places where they have more of a traditional free ranging agriculture sometimes to the poverty
third  all countries or sometimes pretty nice luxury
the  ecological impacts are much much much worse
so  it purely economic argument factory farming looks efficient
cause  it is efficient its ruthlessly efficient is a much more fishy to produce meat
both  in terms of the economic profitability
and  in terms of ecological impacts now if you're having trouble mentioned why that is
you  can have a factory farm that has pigs living for all those three
three  months were months five
very  very short life very miserable life the pigs are born they live their whole lives
in  a horrible steel cage of robeson video that
this  unbelievable moral obscenity but yes that is those pigs
will  eat less food and drink less water for each pound of meat they
then  a free ranging pig that has to live for a longer time
to  be raised
perhaps  more pleasant circumstances
there  are cases where
you  know economic large
favorite
it  doesn't
now  i think most people are trying to make an economist that argument for begins will say well
yes  but we can compare all that
take  all my production in one case
and  then compare it to the
economics  and ecological impact of turkey
having  to simulating me
and  you can but of course very quickly you're getting in
ethical  arguments
ecological  arguments and indeed health for peveril should make that change
because  to force is not in the same category
really  not it's very hard to convince people that swine and camille that one could be substituted
for  the other but obviously a real stake from a real dead animal
it's  not pardon me is not directly comparable to
a  basalt
so  this is not a battle
think  also there's a deep assumption he
which  i have addressed repeatedly on this
that  began products are in a position
now  be imprudent to make
it  sounds great let's make meat as
i  think there is a real sense in which some
mescal  obsolete i agree with that example is a convenient example
there  is a real sense in which no modern she
the  new type of
simply  makes leather
five  hundred years ago to actually make shoes though leather was quite a tricky thing the materials we
have  now with any high and sports so dear powhatan
when  you look at performance were its
whether  it's for the military or reports
using  all the ingredient
various  high tech plastics
mostly
materials  sometimes can
it's  very clear that leather is now obsolete not only can you replace
oh  leather
materials  to the angels are better right and of course
it  is
can't  say that about the
i  just made a video on which i drew attention a fact that i was quoting in
on  earth and
by  torturing
it's  not that
unfortunately  there is no torah
replace  the real rat
it's  really important point of the
we  can't make me
as
utility  the substitute ability have a
relies  on
and
now  a few points that i'm sure might be in wood agree with though she ninety percent agree with well
well  against her is indeed partly government subsidy
solution  of that
percent
ultimately  we have to make
feel  as
to  support the dairy
same  way in the past there
government  subsidy and obviously this is partly the combat at the place of elementary
political  and moral there is no other way to repeal these subsidies there's no other way to bring about the concomitance
pursuing  aside from
you  know this kind of culture on political
number  two the question of culture
culture  is very very resilient
face
economic
well  i tell you if people decide that culturally
it's  really meaningful to go out in a boat and go fishing
some  culture feel that way you may be as people ability for father and son to go in a boat and kill
a  fish and eat it they don't even calculate how much that fish cost
like  a what you had to go and rent a cottage and rent a boat moved
up  the amount of money a family spends going getting their own
it  can be astronomical and yet they'll do it anyway
so  cultural values men there are examples of this in japan they are struggling against driving
their  own eels to
pay  any price for eels and some cultures full pay any price to go hunting or
the  cultural changes were aiming
i  don't think he would disagree with this it's a question of priority it's a question of where do we go
from  here the cultural struggle in many ways
more  powerful than the economic strokes are it's not really clear what i put it
changes  in cultural values
prompt  people to recognize
underlying
reality  but conversely cultural values will completely blind people
to  economic reality and prevent them from
examples  also where these two factors are combined the problem of government
and  the problem of cultural values once you get into questions
you  know within a country like canada the government funding for culture in the
government  funding for cultural heritage
there  to a very strange
where  budgets
millions  of dolls
and  the question of
you  know what were the policy or come to your pursuing but this budget in place
it  could be very very hard to negotiate or debate the way government spend money
once  they get involved in a
entirely
i  used to be involved with
politics
and  you really would have a situation where you sit down and look at the government budget and say well
what  is the justification
for  the government of canada putting millions and millions of dollars
imitating
european  opera
european  ballet european
only  coming up with a second rate or a third rate
can't  we get some millions of dollars
first  rate indigenous culture to do something unique and distinctively canadian but which
i  mean someting
actively  cree or gwarjak or deer
if  we put the money in that direction
then  at least for finding some of the really is uniquely
canada  is always going to be the very best place for an out statues
you  were not going to be a second rate imitation of something that's in italy our europe
those  are very very very tough
negotiate
i  think it is because it
twilight  zone
strange
come  detached
the  logic of the
a  world to find entirely by guvernment subsidy on the one
and  culture is in
when  we get involved in politics
we  first get
think  that
a  lot of us imagined the war going to be the
our  differences of opinion or
two  sides of debate will access to different facts and the course of the
i  exposed the other
on  the contrary i think
you  know as we mature a great many of our debates and politics
instead  of a difference in priority
and  differences
how  we interpret an implement the promises
what  type of a
are
which  we may not know ourselves until we really debated it for that's one of the reasons why political
so  important so i mean mad began her email to me she mentioned in passing
that  only a tiny present
whoever  become the interest
interesting
i  respond to that for me the priority is right great i want to work
with  that tiny
that's  where i see the way forward in terms of the pursuit of cultural change
lobbing  for political change okay so how many thousand people residing in all of canada or
in  althea
and  in a sense he's right the number of people who will be swayed
by  purely moral arguments they ontological arguments when he offered the number of people
who  be committed to venom to doing the right thing just because there
is  much smaller the number of people who will be swayed by economic fact
and  that's where her interest was
the
factors  working with
factors
it's  a tiny number of people who are interested
i  had the experience of being interested in human
i
how  many people are human rights
interest
in  the whole world is it even fifteen people
i  how many people are human rights lawyers interested helping the crenated
they're  not just out for money there undressed neither right thing because the right thing to do in all of candida is it to people
six  people
it's  the very very small number people so many of the issues that in the past i've
done  research on and where i've been interested also in you know militating for
political  change
tiny  tiny number of poe
post
even  amongst you and write lawyers there'd be more of the miner
new  immigrant issues are
i'm  looking for the tiny minority within this field that's really rested then for
that's  tough
so  from my perspective that's not such a
and  then as always is the question of what is the difference that
from  my perspective madigan is partly right and partly
you  can make a big difference
in  those cases that fall neatly into the economics
and  those are cases where began ism can make meat obsolete
were  so milk can make cosmopolite at
and  where the logic of market efficiency is on our side
but  then they are all these other cases
were  it not
falls  outside of that cat
whether  we're talking about vivisection or the logic of factory
what's  the difference
going  to be different for
it's  going to defend the position you can play
reflect  the educational back
you
for  many of us
it's  going to be militating for cultural change and political
the  way we can
individuals
the  terms
you  don't have the
on  the card
start  your own
company
to  make plays in the market
that
then  i don't think
more
a  passive
and  comments
as  those